README.md, before:

# CraigsLink - easily surf Craigslist utilizing natural language prompts

An intelligent web application that uses an LLM (llama3.1:latest) to understand user intent and generate optimized Craigslist search links. Simply describe what you're looking for in natural language, and the AI will create the perfect search query with relevant keywords and filters. 

## Features

- **Natural Language Processing**: Describe what you want in plain English
- **AI-Powered Recommendations**: Ollama Llama 3.1:Latest (local, free) suggests relevant items and brands
- **Smart Category Detection**: Automatically identifies the best Craigslist category
- **City/Region Support**: Works with multiple Craigslist regions
- **Price Filtering**: Automatically extracts and applies price ranges
- **Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design with smooth animations
- **Example Queries**: Click-to-try example searches
## Application Examples
- Dark mode example
![CLdarknew](https://github.com/agastyak1/CraigsLink/blob/0b686c2cccb5290c1c8c1474a8369ebc6c95e780/craigsLinkResults/CLdarknew.png?raw=true)
- Light mode example
![CraigsLink Light](https://github.com/agastyak1/CraigsLink/blob/0b686c2cccb5290c1c8c1474a8369ebc6c95e780/craigsLinkResults/CLnewlight.png?raw=true)
- Results example (Query:"Find me a Honda Civic under $5000, clean title, with under 100k miles and within 30 miles of 90210")
![CraigsLink Results Dark Example](https://github.com/agastyak1/CraigsLink/raw/0b686c2cccb5290c1c8c1474a8369ebc6c95e780/craigsLinkResults/resultExampleDark.png)
## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- Ollama installed locally ([Download here](https://ollama.ai/))
- Llama 3.1 model requires around 20GB of free RAM, tested as balance between speed and accuracy; other models can be used though, with varying results
### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd CraigsLink
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   ```
   
   Edit `.env` if you want to customize Ollama settings OR in app.py:
   ```bash
   OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://localhost:11434
   OLLAMA_MODEL=llama3.1:latest
   ```

4. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

5. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5000`

## Usage Examples

### Example 1: Car Search
**Input**: "I want a reliable car under $10,000"

**Output**: 
- **Recommendations**: Honda Civic, Toyota Corolla, Mazda3
- **Link**: `https://sfbay.craigslist.org/search/cta?query=honda+civic|toyota+corolla|mazda3&max_price=10000`

### Example 2: Laptop Search
**Input**: "cheap laptop for coding under $500"

**Output**:
- **Recommendations**: Dell XPS, Lenovo ThinkPad, MacBook Air
- **Link**: `https://sfbay.craigslist.org/search/sys?query=dell+xps|lenovo+thinkpad|macbook+air&max_price=500`

### Example 3: Furniture Search
**Input**: "furniture for small apartment in NYC"

**Output**:
- **Recommendations**: IKEA furniture, compact sofa, small dining table
- **Link**: `https://nyc.craigslist.org/search/fua?query=ikea+furniture|compact+sofa|small+dining+table`

## Architecture

### Backend (Python/Flask)
- **Flask**: Web framework for API endpoints
- **Ollama Open Source Local LLMs**: Natural language processing and recommendations (local, free)
- **Smart Parsing**: Extracts keywords, prices, and categories
- **URL Generation**: Creates optimized Craigslist search links

### Frontend (Vanilla JavaScript)
- **Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design
- **Interactive Elements**: Example tags, loading states, error handling
- **Accessibility**: ARIA labels, keyboard shortcuts
- **Responsive Design**: Works on all device sizes
- **Dark and Light Mode**: Appealing design with light/dark toggles

### Key Components
- **Query Processing**: Analyzes user input for intent
- **Category Mapping**: Maps common terms to Craigslist categories
- **City Detection**: Identifies mentioned cities/regions
- **Price Extraction**: Parses budget constraints
- **Link Building**: Constructs search URLs with proper parameters

## 🔧 Configuration

### Supported Cities
The application supports major Craigslist regions (and all zip codes) :
- San Francisco Bay Area (default)
- New York City
- Los Angeles
- Chicago
- Seattle
- Austin
- Denver
- Miami
- Atlanta
- Phoenix
- Dallas
- Houston

### Supported Categories - almost all!
- **cta**: Cars & Trucks
- **sys**: Computers
- **fua**: Furniture
- **apa**: Apartments
- **rea**: Real Estate
- **jjj**: Jobs
- **sss**: General Search
- Almost ALL categories in Craigslist are supported - the above are just some common/general ones.


### Abilty to search titles only, search for clean titles (cars), and almost every single Craigslist parameter is supported.

### Manual Testing
1. Start the application
2. Try various example queries
3. Test with different cities and categories
4. Verify generated links work correctly

### API Testing
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/generate-link \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "reliable car under $10,000"}'
```

## 📝 License

This project under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](LICENSE).

**Built using Flask, Ollama Llama 3.1 (local, free), Python, JS, and HTML/CSS**

Commit message:

Update README with model switch note
Added note about potential model switch for better results.

README.md, after:

# CraigsLink - easily surf Craigslist utilizing natural language prompts

An intelligent web application that uses an LLM (llama3.1:latest) to understand user intent and generate optimized Craigslist search links. Simply describe what you're looking for in natural language, and the AI will create the perfect search query with relevant keywords and filters. 
NOTE: may switch to a lightweight Ministral or Gemma3 model for better results. 
## Features

- **Natural Language Processing**: Describe what you want in plain English
- **AI-Powered Recommendations**: Ollama Llama 3.1:Latest (local, free) suggests relevant items and brands
- **Smart Category Detection**: Automatically identifies the best Craigslist category
- **City/Region Support**: Works with multiple Craigslist regions
- **Price Filtering**: Automatically extracts and applies price ranges
- **Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design with smooth animations
- **Example Queries**: Click-to-try example searches
## Application Examples
- Dark mode example
![CLdarknew](https://github.com/agastyak1/CraigsLink/blob/0b686c2cccb5290c1c8c1474a8369ebc6c95e780/craigsLinkResults/CLdarknew.png?raw=true)
- Light mode example
![CraigsLink Light](https://github.com/agastyak1/CraigsLink/blob/0b686c2cccb5290c1c8c1474a8369ebc6c95e780/craigsLinkResults/CLnewlight.png?raw=true)
- Results example (Query:"Find me a Honda Civic under $5000, clean title, with under 100k miles and within 30 miles of 90210")
![CraigsLink Results Dark Example](https://github.com/agastyak1/CraigsLink/raw/0b686c2cccb5290c1c8c1474a8369ebc6c95e780/craigsLinkResults/resultExampleDark.png)
## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- Ollama installed locally ([Download here](https://ollama.ai/))
- Llama 3.1 model requires around 20GB of free RAM, tested as balance between speed and accuracy; other models can be used though, with varying results
### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd CraigsLink
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   ```
   
   Edit `.env` if you want to customize Ollama settings OR in app.py:
   ```bash
   OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://localhost:11434
   OLLAMA_MODEL=llama3.1:latest
   ```

4. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

5. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5000`

## Usage Examples

### Example 1: Car Search
**Input**: "I want a reliable car under $10,000"

**Output**: 
- **Recommendations**: Honda Civic, Toyota Corolla, Mazda3
- **Link**: `https://sfbay.craigslist.org/search/cta?query=honda+civic|toyota+corolla|mazda3&max_price=10000`

### Example 2: Laptop Search
**Input**: "cheap laptop for coding under $500"

**Output**:
- **Recommendations**: Dell XPS, Lenovo ThinkPad, MacBook Air
- **Link**: `https://sfbay.craigslist.org/search/sys?query=dell+xps|lenovo+thinkpad|macbook+air&max_price=500`

### Example 3: Furniture Search
**Input**: "furniture for small apartment in NYC"

**Output**:
- **Recommendations**: IKEA furniture, compact sofa, small dining table
- **Link**: `https://nyc.craigslist.org/search/fua?query=ikea+furniture|compact+sofa|small+dining+table`

## Architecture

### Backend (Python/Flask)
- **Flask**: Web framework for API endpoints
- **Ollama Open Source Local LLMs**: Natural language processing and recommendations (local, free)
- **Smart Parsing**: Extracts keywords, prices, and categories
- **URL Generation**: Creates optimized Craigslist search links

### Frontend (Vanilla JavaScript)
- **Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design
- **Interactive Elements**: Example tags, loading states, error handling
- **Accessibility**: ARIA labels, keyboard shortcuts
- **Responsive Design**: Works on all device sizes
- **Dark and Light Mode**: Appealing design with light/dark toggles

### Key Components
- **Query Processing**: Analyzes user input for intent
- **Category Mapping**: Maps common terms to Craigslist categories
- **City Detection**: Identifies mentioned cities/regions
- **Price Extraction**: Parses budget constraints
- **Link Building**: Constructs search URLs with proper parameters

## 🔧 Configuration

### Supported Cities
The application supports major Craigslist regions (and all zip codes) :
- San Francisco Bay Area (default)
- New York City
- Los Angeles
- Chicago
- Seattle
- Austin
- Denver
- Miami
- Atlanta
- Phoenix
- Dallas
- Houston

### Supported Categories - almost all!
- **cta**: Cars & Trucks
- **sys**: Computers
- **fua**: Furniture
- **apa**: Apartments
- **rea**: Real Estate
- **jjj**: Jobs
- **sss**: General Search
- Almost ALL categories in Craigslist are supported - the above are just some common/general ones.


### Abilty to search titles only, search for clean titles (cars), and almost every single Craigslist parameter is supported.

### Manual Testing
1. Start the application
2. Try various example queries
3. Test with different cities and categories
4. Verify generated links work correctly

### API Testing
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/generate-link \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "reliable car under $10,000"}'
```

## 📝 License

This project under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](LICENSE).

**Built using Flask, Ollama Llama 3.1 (local, free), Python, JS, and HTML/CSS**
